
Hi. In a way, everything feels terrible [right now](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/oct/06/brett-kavanaugh-confirmed-us-supreme-court), doesn't it?  I'm pretty tired of feeling terrible, and _super_ tired of feeling like the country is in a new level of shit, when - let's be honest - it's been shit for everyone but white men since the beginning.  I hear a lot of people feeling powerless; folks are tired. Me too, y'all (and #metoo).

I don't know what everyone is capable of, though I believe it to be more than we even realize, but I have figured out what _I_ can do right now.  I've been a programmer for a long time, and part of open source software communities for many years. This combination means that when I figure something out I make a list and I write a blog.  So... in line with my devotion to open source knowledge, open communication, transparent processes, and public commitments, here I am publicly committing to what I can do **100% of the time**\* in the next 12 months. I'm going to vote, obviously. But beyond that, I've asked myself: **What does it look like to make a conscious, _sustainable_ effort to invest in the future I want?**

The big key for me is sustainable: I have a job; I'm in graduate school doing work that I believe will make me a more effective change agent when it's done; I'm involved with several dysfunctional communities that need my support.  What can I commit to doing constantly and consistently in light of my other obligations?  A lot of the commitments below are things that folks already say they do all the time - but if they did them all the time, I think the world would look pretty different.  My trust for white folks (and white women specifically) is at an all-time low, so despite some of these feeling like really base-level behavior, I think it's important to be explicit and to specify _exactly_ how I'm going to honor and fulfill my commitments.  These public commitments also mean that if you see me breaking them, I invite you to call me out on it.

**tl;dr**: _I commit to put money in the pockets of people of color and put emotional energy into dealing with my racist and sexist white sisters._

## I have economic commitments

The absolutely _easiest_ way I can act in line with my values is by paying attention to where and how I spend money.  Simply not spending money at companies that do violence to communities of color is a no-brainer.  It's also different from _actively trying_ to put my money into the pockets of people of color in my community.  

 - I increased my donations to Southern Poverty Law Center and the ACLU
 - If I drank alcohol, I would avoid Constellation brands in solidarity with those fighting for water rights.  Read more at [Latino Rebels](http://www.latinorebels.com/2018/01/24/boycott-modelo-water-privatization-and-solidarity-with-baja-california/) and [NPR](http://www.latinorebels.com/2018/01/24/boycott-modelo-water-privatization-and-solidarity-with-baja-california/).
- When I'm choosing a service, I commit to specifically searching _first_ for businesses that are black or POC owned. Anything you need, you can find from a business owned by a POC. I don't spend a ton of money on things (see above re: grad school), but when I do, I do it specifically from black-owned businesses.  
    - When I get my head shaved, I go to a local black-owned barbershop.
    - When I'm shopping on Etsy, I start with their listing of [black owned shops](https://www.etsy.com/market/black_owned)
    - There may be a [black-owned farm or grocery store](https://blackmainstreet.net/black-farmers-and-grocery-stores-to-buy-from/) in your area, but there's not one here that I've found yet.
    - This is a great [black-owned crystal shop](https://chakrazulucrystals.com/pages/about-us)
    - If you have a regular service provider who is white, can you change so that you're putting money into POC pockets? I'm actively looking for a POC sports massage therapist in my area.

I'm still struggling with how to spend less money on Amazon - I need to buy books, and I need to get them used and not spend a ton of time tracking them down - but I'm working on it.

## I have academic commitments

- Last year, I sat in a master class with a well-known (white, cismale) scholar and listened to him denigrate United States slaves.  None of us said anything because we were scared of our department chair and the scholar.  I haven't repeated that silence, and here I renew my commitment to calling out racist, sexist, colonialist, transphobic and other bullshit _every time_ I see it in a classroom, regardless of the power dynamics at play.
- I [#citeblackwomen](https://twitter.com/citeblackwomen) and, wherever possible, read womxn, trans* folks, people of color, indigenous, and disabled scholars.  
- I commit to recommending _only_ work by people who do not identify as cisgendered white men.
- I commit to collaborating _only_ with scholars whose politics and ethics I respect and whose values are anti-racist, anti-transphobic, anti-Islamophobic, anti..... If I find out that I'm working with a scholar who does not share these views, I commit to terminating that working relationship (but helping them wake the fuck up, if they are white women; see the next section).  As a graduate student, my attention and labor are the only currencies I have to spend - I commit to spending them with scholars who are working to make the world better.


## I have social commitments

Here's where it gets really exhausting, but I'm doing it anyway:  _I commit to talking with all of the white women in my life whose actions support patriarchy._  This is my least favorite thing to do and the thing that I think is the most important here.  These conversations mean that I often need to ignore cisnormative/transviolent dialogue to help folks ease into thinking critically about patriarchy.  I commit to that ignoring in the service of bringing folks along.

I also:
- commit to being _visible_ and _vocal_ in my communities to advocate for victims of abuse and harassment.
    - Tactically, this means that I commit to responding _publicly_ when an issue occurs and making it uncomfortable for white women to perpetuate patriarchal and racist violence.
    - This means that I'm willing to be _that person_ who won't shut up about an issue that continues to make communities dangerous.
- commit to supporting others doing good work and getting into [good trouble](https://twitter.com/repjohnlewis/status/1011991303599607808?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw) in any way that I can.
- commit to addressing 100% of the racist, sexist, ableist, homophobic, \*ist comments that I hear
    - I would like this to mean [calling in](http://www.bgdblog.org/2013/12/calling-less-disposable-way-holding-accountable/) whenever possible.
- commit to holding space for folks to come together and process what's happening
    - I would like this to include support in meaningful ways - time, food, physical space
- commit to volunteering in my community at least once a month, with organizations that work towards racial and economic justice.  I don't believe that courts will save us, and I know that putting my body and energy towards people who need it is valuable.

## I have limits

Lest it seem like I'm here all "look at me do all the things," here are some things I'm not doing this year because I know I can't engage with them sustainably or in a way that's safe for me.

I can't:
- spend time or emotional labor educating white cisgendered men. (Get on it, other men)
- spend time caring for and curating safe online spaces.
- read material from the "other side."  I'll be passing on works by Jonathan Haidt, thanks.
- make time commitments to recruit voters or to campaign for candidates.
- commit to actively interrogate the politics of people in designated "no politics" zones. My gym, for example, is a wild mix of political views (including folks who are alllll the way right) and they try to leave it all at the door, so I'm respecting that. I will, however, continue to not tolerate any racist bullshit from other white people.


Will this change the world? Nope.  But this _will_ change how I feel about what I can do tomorrow.  It will keep me accountable for actively doing my part to dismantle oppressive systems.  I hope that it encourages others to make public, time-based and specific (aka [SMART](https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/smart-goals.htm) goals) commitments to what they can do.
Most importantly, this gives me a framework to move forward and know that I'm making small differences while I figure out where I can make big difference.  Have questions, white women?  Let's talk.

<hr>
\* The 100% of the time is really important here.  In recovery circles, folks talk about the exception reinforcing the need for commitment.  "I'm going to have one drink on Thanksgiving because I can't handle my family" reinforces the assertion that maybe the speaker needs to commit to abstinence.  "I'm going to fight racism _except_ this one time with my boss" reinforces white supremacy and the speaker's alliance with oppressors.
